---
layout: faq # FAQ styling for lists and code blocks is right for this page
redirect_from: /tutorials/upgrading_to_Jasmine_5.0/
---
<h1>Upgrading to Jasmine 5.0</h1>

<h2>Overview</h2>

Most users will be able to upgrade to Jasmine 5.0 without making any changes.
However, it does contain a few breaking changes that will affect some users.
Following the advice in this guide will give you the greatest chance of a smooth
upgrade experience.

Breaking changes in Jasmine 5.0 include changes to how backslashes are handled
in file globs on Windows, changes to how `Env#execute` is called, changes to how
Node-based libraries boot jasmine-core, and changes to the system requirements.
You can find a complete list of breaking changes in the release notes for
[`jasmine-core`](https://github.com/jasmine/jasmine/blob/main/release_notes/5.0.0.md)
and [`jasmine`](https://github.com/jasmine/jasmine-npm/blob/main/release_notes/5.0.0.md)
.

All users are encouraged to upgrade to the latest 4.x release and resolve any
errors or deprecation warnings prior to upgrading to 5.0. In particular, people
who use the `jasmine` package on Windows should upgrade to at least 4.5.0 first
because that release adds an important deprecation warning that affects Windows
users. For the same reason, people who use the `jasmine-browser-runner` package
on Windows should upgrade that package to at least 1.3.0 prior to upgrading it
to 2.0.

The new parallel execution mode introduced in Jasmine 5.0 comes with additional
restrictions on how both specs and reporters are written. These restrictions
apply only when Jasmine is run in the parallel mode. See the
[guide to parallel execution](running_specs_in_parallel) for details.

<h2>Contents</h2>

<ol>
  <li><a href="#system-requirements">System requirements</a></li>
  <li><a href="#upgrading-jasmine-browser-runner">Upgrading jasmine-browser-runner</a></li>
  <li><a href="#changes-to-backslash-handling-on-windows">Changes to backslash handling on Windows</a></li>
  <li><a href="#support-for-parallel-execution">Support for parallel execution</a></li>
  <li><a href="#changes-to-global-error-handling-in-browsers">Changes to global error handling in browsers</a></li>
  <li><a href="#changes-to-env-execute" markdown="1">Changes to `Env#execute`</a></li>
  <li><a href="#node_boot-js-removal" markdown="1">`node_boot.js` removal</a></li>
</ol>

<h2>Codemods</h2>

To assist with the upgrade from jasmine v4.x to v5.0, Codemod provides open-source codemods that automatically transform your code to many of the new APIs and patterns.

These following codemods are available:

-   [`jasmine/v5/handling-env-execute-callbacks`](https://codemod.com/registry/jasmine-v5-handling-env-execute-callbacks)
-   [`jasmine/v5/node-boot-removal`](https://codemod.com/registry/jasmine-v5-node-boot-removal)

You can also visit the [Codemod Registry](https://codemod.com/registry?q=jasmine) to view the complete list of Jasmine 5.0 codemods, as well as detailed information on each of them.
<br>

> If you encounter any issues, please report them to the Codemod team with `npx codemod feedback` ðŸ™

You can run all the codemods mentioned in this guide using the following codemod recipe:
> npx codemod@latest jasmine/v5/migration-recipe

This command will execute all codemods in sequence, with the option to deselect any that you do not wish to run. Each codemod is also listed below alongside its respective change and can be executed independently.


<h2>System requirements</h2>

The following previously-supported environments are no longer supported:

* Node <18
* Safari 14
* Firefox 91

Although Jasmine 5.0 may still work in some of those environments, we no longer
test against them and won't try to maintain compatibility with them in future
5.x releases.

<h2>Upgrading jasmine-browser-runner</h2>

If you're using `jasmine-browser-runner`, upgrade to version 2.0. Your package
manager (npm/yarn/etc) should automatically install `jasmine-core` 5.0 or later
unless your `package.json` specifies an earlier version.

<h2>Changes to backslash handling on Windows</h2>

Historically, backslashes in file globs such as the `spec_files` configuration
property were treated as directory separators on Windows and as the start of an
escape sequence on other operating systems. Beginning with `jasmine` 5.0 and
`jasmine-browser-runner` 2.0, they are treated as the start of an escape
sequence on all operating systems. This change makes Jasmine configuration files
more portable and ensures that Windows users can specify filenames that happen
to match special glob syntax. See the `glob` package's
[changelog](https://github.com/isaacs/node-glob/blob/main/changelog.md#80) and
[README](https://github.com/isaacs/node-glob/blob/main/README.md)
for more information.

Deprecation warnings related to backslashes were added in `jasmine` 4.6.0 and
`jasmine-browser-runner` 1.3.0. Windows users should upgrade to those versions
or later and resolve all deprecation warnings before upgrading to `jasmine` 5.x
or `jasmine-browser-runner` 2.x.

<h2>Support for parallel execution</h2>

The biggest change in 5.0 is support for parallel execution in Node.js via the
`jasmine` package. Parallel execution imposes some constraints on both test
suites and reporters, and as a result not everyone will be able to adopt it
without making changes. See [Running Specs in Parallel](running_specs_in_parallel)
for more information.

<h2>Changes to global error handling in browsers</h2>

Previous versions of Jasmine detected unhandled exceptions and unhandled promise
rejections in browsers by installing a `window.onerror` handler. 5.0 and later
use `addEventListener` instead. This means that Jasmine will no longer override
any error handler that your code installs prior to startup. It also means that
you can no longer override Jasmine's global error handling by setting
`window.onerror`. If you need to override Jasmine's global error handling, use
[spyOnGlobalErrors](http://localhost:4000/api/4.6/jasmine.html#.spyOnGlobalErrorsAsync).

Using `addEventListener` allows Jasmine to provide better error information in
many cases. However, some browsers limit the information that's provided to
error listeners when the source of the error was loaded from a `file://` URL. If
you're using the standalone distribution, you may find it easier to debug
unhandled exceptions and promise rejections if you load Jasmine via a web
server. An easy way to do this is to run `npx serve` from the directory
containing
`SpecRunner.html`.

<h2 markdown="1">Changes to `Env#execute`</h2>

Jasmine 5.0 completes the migration of `Env#execute` to async/await. Most users
don't need to care about this because they either don't call `Env#execute`
directly or use it in a "fire and forget" fashion. However, anyone who's either
passing a callback to `Env#execute` or catching exceptions from it may need to
make changes.

Before:

```javascript
try {
    env.execute(null, function () {
        // Handle completion
    });
} catch (e) {
    // Handle failures to start
}
```

After:

```javascript
try {
    const jasmineDoneInfo = await env.execute();
} catch (e) {
    // Handle failures to start, which are now delivered via promise rejection
    // rather than synchronous throw
}
```

<h3>Note to library authors</h3>

The "after" form works with `jasmine-core` 4.0.0 and later, or 3.9.0 and later
if you ignore the value that the promise is resolved to.

>You can automate this migration by running `npx codemod@latest jasmine/v5/handling-env-execute-callbacks`

<h2 markdown="1">`node_boot.js` removal</h2>

This change mainly affects authors of libraries that wrap `jasmine-core` in
Node.js, not end users. Prior to 5.0, the `boot` function used to
initialize `jasmine-core` in Node was provided via `jasmine-core/node_boot.js`
and also exported on the `jasmine-core` module itself. `node_boot.js` no longer
exists in 5.0.

Before:

```javascript
const boot = require('jasmine-core/node_boot.js');
```

After:

```javascript
const boot = require('jasmine-core').boot;
```

The "After" version should work in all versions of `jasmine-core` that support
Node.js.

>You can automate this migration by running `npx codemod@latest jasmine/v5/node-boot-removal`