---
question: Why is Jasmine written in ES5 with a funny hand-rolled module system? Why not use Babel and Webpack?
slug: es5
---

The short answer is that Jasmine predates both Babel and Webpack, and converting
to those tools would be a lot of work for a fairly small payoff that largely
went away when Jasmine dropped support for non-ES2017 environments like Internet
Explorer. Although most of Jasmine is still written in ES5, newer language
features can now be used.

For most of its life, Jasmine needed to run on browsers that didn't support
newer JavaScript features. That meant that the compiled code couldn't use newer
syntax and library features such as arrow functions, `async`/`await`, `Promise`,
`Symbol`, `Map`, and `Set`. As a result, it was written in ES5 syntax without
any use of non-portable library features except in certain narrow contexts like
async matchers.

So why not adopt Babel and Webpack? Partly because Jasmine fits in an odd space
that breaks some of the assumptions made by those tools: It's both an
application and a library, and even when it's acting as an application it
can't safely modify the JavaScript runtime environment. If Jasmine added
polyfills for missing library features, that could cause specs for code that
depends on those features to incorrectly pass on browsers that don't have them.
We've yet to figure out how to configure Babel and Webpack (or any other
bundler) in a way that guarantees that no polyfills will be introduced. And
even if we did that, the payoff would have been relatively small. Writing ES5
syntax instead of ES6 was the easy part of supporting a wide range of browsers.
The hard parts, mainly dealing with missing library features and other
incompatibilities, would still have needed to be solved by hand.

Jasmine's existing build tools have the virtues of simplicity, speed, and
needing extremely low maintainence. We're not opposed to switching to something
newer if the change is a significant improvement. But so far, being conservative
in this area has allowed us to skip quite a bit of front end build tooling
churn and use that time to work on things that benefit users.
